src/site/asciidoc/download.adoc, before:

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
// .
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
// .
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

//:source-highlighter: coderay

include::temp-properties-files-for-site/attributes.adoc[]
:linkattrs: true

= Downloading Apache Tamaya

// @todo Is a ToC here really required? :toc:

The latest release is Apache Tamaya {tamaya_version_current}.
You can download it it from the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/[Apache Software Foundation Distribution Directory^].

// @todo The release notes are available [here][4].
// http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/0.1-incubating/ReleaseNotes-0.1-incubating.html

== Current Source Code

Downloading of the the current state of the project can be done by

* cloning the https://github.com/apache/incubator-tamaya[GitHub mirror^]
* Github also provides an easy way to dowload the current project source as zip archive.
// @todo * Cloning the Apache source tree, see link:3[source section]. source.html


== Maven Dependencies

// @todo
// @todo Details are available <a href="documentation/#_project_configuration_without_maven">here</a>.


// @todo Source highlighting does not work currently.
//
[source,xml,subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>{tamaya_mvn_group_id}</groupId>
    <artifactId>tamaya-api</artifactId>
    <version>{tamaya_version_current}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>{tamaya_mvn_group_id}</groupId>
    <artifactId>tamaya-core</artifactId>
    <version>{tamaya_version_current}</version>
</dependency>
----


== Previous Releases

All previous releases can also be found at the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/[Apache Software Foundation Distribution Directory^].

== Verifying Releases

It is essential that you verify the integrity of any downloaded files using
the PGP or MD5 signatures.  For more information on signing artifacts and
why we do it, check out the
http://www.apache.org/dev/release-signing.html[Release Signing FAQ^].

The PGP signatures can be verified using PGP or GPG. First download the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/KEYS[KEYS file^]
as well as the asc signature file for the artifact. Make sure you get
these files from the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/[main distribution directory^]
rather than from a
http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/tamaya/[mirror^].
Then verify the signatures using e.g.:

[source,shell]
----
$ pgpk -a KEYS
$ pgpv tamaya-project-1.2.0-source-release.zip.asc
----

or
[source,shell]
----
$ pgp -ka KEYS
$ pgp tamaya-project-1.2.0-source-release.zip.asc
----

or

[source,shell]
----
$ gpg --import KEYS
$ gpg --verify tamaya-project-1.2.0-source-release.zip.asc
----

Commit message:

TAMAYA-101 Added small page with all releases to the new homepage.

src/site/asciidoc/download.adoc, after:

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
// .
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
// .
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

//:source-highlighter: coderay

include::temp-properties-files-for-site/attributes.adoc[]
:linkattrs: true

= Downloading Apache Tamaya

// @todo Is a ToC here really required? :toc:

The latest release is Apache Tamaya {tamaya_version_current}.
You can download it it from the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/[Apache Software Foundation Distribution Directory^].

// @todo The release notes are available [here][4].
// http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/0.1-incubating/ReleaseNotes-0.1-incubating.html

== Current Source Code

Downloading of the the current state of the project can be done by

* cloning the https://github.com/apache/incubator-tamaya[GitHub mirror^]
* Github also provides an easy way to dowload the current project source as zip archive.
// @todo * Cloning the Apache source tree, see link:3[source section]. source.html


== Maven Dependencies

// @todo
// @todo Details are available <a href="documentation/#_project_configuration_without_maven">here</a>.


// @todo Source highlighting does not work currently.
//
[source,xml,subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>{tamaya_mvn_group_id}</groupId>
    <artifactId>tamaya-api</artifactId>
    <version>{tamaya_version_current}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>{tamaya_mvn_group_id}</groupId>
    <artifactId>tamaya-core</artifactId>
    <version>{tamaya_version_current}</version>
</dependency>
----


== Previous Releases

All previous releases can also be found at the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/[Apache Software Foundation Distribution Directory^].
In our link:history.html[release history overview] you can find all previous releases of Tamaya.

== Verifying Releases

It is essential that you verify the integrity of any downloaded files using
the PGP or MD5 signatures.  For more information on signing artifacts and
why we do it, check out the
http://www.apache.org/dev/release-signing.html[Release Signing FAQ^].

The PGP signatures can be verified using PGP or GPG. First download the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/KEYS[KEYS file^]
as well as the asc signature file for the artifact. Make sure you get
these files from the
http://www.apache.org/dist/incubator/tamaya/[main distribution directory^]
rather than from a
http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/tamaya/[mirror^].
Then verify the signatures using e.g.:

[source,shell]
----
$ pgpk -a KEYS
$ pgpv tamaya-project-1.2.0-source-release.zip.asc
----

or
[source,shell]
----
$ pgp -ka KEYS
$ pgp tamaya-project-1.2.0-source-release.zip.asc
----

or

[source,shell]
----
$ gpg --import KEYS
$ gpg --verify tamaya-project-1.2.0-source-release.zip.asc
----
