src/site/asciidoc/extensions/mod_mutable_config.adoc, before:

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

= Apache Tamaya -- Extension: Events

:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya.mutableconfig
:title: Apache Tamaya Extension: Mutable Configuration
:revnumber: 0.1
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: March 2016
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:

'''

<<<

toc::[]

<<<
:numbered!:
<<<
[[Core]]
== Tamaya Mutable Configuration (Extension Module)
=== Overview

Tamaya Configuration by default is read-only, which covers must of the use cases. Make it writable through out
creates also a bunch of new issues, especially with distributed configuration services and eventual consistency.
Therefore mutability of configuration is modelled in Tamaya as a separate concern. This module defines the API
to be used, whereas multiple mutable backends can register their mechanism to write configuration properties.

=== Compatibility

The module is based on Java 7, so it can be used with Java 7 and beyond.

=== Installation

To benefit from configuration mutability support you only must add the corresponding dependency to your module:

[source, xml]
-----------------------------------------------
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.tamaya.ext</groupId>
  <artifactId>tamaya-mutable-config</artifactId>
  <version>{tamayaVersion}</version>
</dependency>
-----------------------------------------------

=== Core Architecture

The core of the module is the +ConfigChangeManager+ singleton, which creates a +ConfigChangeReuqest+ class for
a +configurationTarget+ passed. The supported target +URIs+ hereby are determined (and must be documented) by
the registered backend spis. If not sure you can call +getSupportedURIInfo()+ to see, which kind of URI's
supported.
As an example writing configuration entries to an +etcd+ server can be done as follows:

[source,java]
.Writing configuration to etcd
--------------------------------------------
ConfigChangeRequest request = ConfigChangeManager.createChangeRequest(new URI("etc:http://127.0.0.1:4441"));
ChangeSummary summary = request
                .set("newKey", "newValue").set("anotherKey", "updatedValue")
                .remove("valueNotValid")
                .commit();
--------------------------------------------

The effective effect of your changes to the overall configuration changes cannot be easily predicted, since it depends
on several aspects:

. is the corresponding configuration resource configured as part of the current system's configuration?
. what is the +PropertySource's+ ordinal? Is it overriding or overriden by other sources?
. is the change directly visible to the configuration system? E.g. injected values are normally not updated,
  whereas injecting a +DynamicValue<T>+ instance allows to detect and react single value changes. Also the
  +PropertySources+ implementation must be able to detect any configuration changes and adapt its values returned
  accordingly.
. Is configuration cached, or written/collected directly on access?
. can the changes applied be committed at all?

So it is part of your application configuration design to clearly define, which confoguration may be read-only, which
may be mutable, how overridings should work and to which backends finally any changes should be written back. To
support such fine granular scenarios the +ConfigChangeRequest+ interface also has methods to determine if a key
is writable at all for a given configuration target:

[source,java]
.Checking for mutability
--------------------------------------------
ConfigChangeRequest request = ConfigChangeManager.createChangeRequest(new URI("file://$USER_HOME/.myapp/mapp.properties"));
if(request,isWritable("mycluster.shared.appKey")){
    request.set("newKey", "newValue")
    .remove("valueNotValid")
     .commit();
}else{
    request.cancel();
}
--------------------------------------------

=== Configuration Changes

This module does not handle detection of changes to the overall system's +Configuration+. This can be done in
several ways, e.g. by:

* using the _tamaya-events_ extension, which can be used to observe the system's configuration and
  publishing events when things have been changed.
* The SPI implementing the +ConfigChangeManagerSpi+ may inform/update any affected +PropertySource,
  PropertySourceProvider+ instances about the changes applied.


=== SPIs

The module defines only one single SPI, that must be implemented to implement the fabric method
+createChangeRequest(URI)+ of the +ConfigChangeManager+ singleton:

[source,java]
.SPI: ConfigEventSpi
--------------------------------------------------
public interface ConfigChangeManagerSpi {
    ConfigChangeRequest createChangeRequest(URI backendURI);
}
--------------------------------------------------

Implementations are registered with the current +ServiceContext+, be default as with
 +java.util.ServiceLoader+.

Commit message:

TAMAYA-135: Added support for multiple backends in one change request.

src/site/asciidoc/extensions/mod_mutable_config.adoc, after:

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

= Apache Tamaya -- Extension: Events

:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya.mutableconfig
:title: Apache Tamaya Extension: Mutable Configuration
:revnumber: 0.1
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: March 2016
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:

'''

<<<

toc::[]

<<<
:numbered!:
<<<
[[Core]]
== Tamaya Mutable Configuration (Extension Module)
=== Overview

Tamaya Configuration by default is read-only, which covers must of the use cases. Make it writable through out
creates also a bunch of new issues, especially with distributed configuration services and eventual consistency.
Therefore mutability of configuration is modelled in Tamaya as a separate concern. This module defines the API
to be used, whereas multiple mutable backends can register their mechanism to write configuration properties.

=== Compatibility

The module is based on Java 7, so it can be used with Java 7 and beyond.

=== Installation

To benefit from configuration mutability support you only must add the corresponding dependency to your module:

[source, xml]
-----------------------------------------------
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.tamaya.ext</groupId>
  <artifactId>tamaya-mutable-config</artifactId>
  <version>{tamayaVersion}</version>
</dependency>
-----------------------------------------------

=== Core Architecture

The core of the module is the +ConfigChangeManager+ singleton, which creates a +ConfigChangeReuqest+ class for
one or multiple +configurationTargets+ passed. The supported target +URIs+ hereby are determined (and must be
documented) by the registered backend spis. If not sure you can call +getSupportedURIInfo()+ to see, which kind of URI's
supported.
As an example writing configuration entries to an +etcd+ server can be done as follows:

[source,java]
.Writing configuration to etcd
--------------------------------------------
ConfigChangeRequest request = ConfigChangeManager.createChangeRequest(
    new URI("etc:http://127.0.0.1:4441"),
    new URI("file:/home/etcd/backup-config.properties"));
ChangeSummary summary = request
                .set("newKey", "newValue").set("anotherKey", "updatedValue")
                .remove("valueNotValid")
                .commit();
--------------------------------------------

The effective effect of your changes to the overall configuration changes cannot be easily predicted, since it depends
on several aspects:

. is the corresponding configuration resource configured as part of the current system's configuration?
. what is the +PropertySource's+ ordinal? Is it overriding or overriden by other sources?
. is the change directly visible to the configuration system? E.g. injected values are normally not updated,
  whereas injecting a +DynamicValue<T>+ instance allows to detect and react single value changes. Also the
  +PropertySources+ implementation must be able to detect any configuration changes and adapt its values returned
  accordingly.
. Is configuration cached, or written/collected directly on access?
. can the changes applied be committed at all?

So it is part of your application configuration design to clearly define, which confoguration may be read-only, which
may be mutable, how overridings should work and to which backends finally any changes should be written back. To
support such fine granular scenarios the +ConfigChangeRequest+ interface also has methods to determine if a key
is writable at all for a given configuration target:

[source,java]
.Checking for mutability
--------------------------------------------
ConfigChangeRequest request = ConfigChangeManager.createChangeRequest(new URI("file://$USER_HOME/.myapp/mapp.properties"));
if(request,isWritable("mycluster.shared.appKey")){
    request.set("newKey", "newValue")
    .remove("valueNotValid")
     .commit();
}else{
    request.cancel();
}
--------------------------------------------

=== Configuration Changes

This module does not handle detection of changes to the overall system's +Configuration+. This can be done in
several ways, e.g. by:

* using the _tamaya-events_ extension, which can be used to observe the system's configuration and
  publishing events when things have been changed.
* The SPI implementing the +ConfigChangeManagerSpi+ may inform/update any affected +PropertySource,
  PropertySourceProvider+ instances about the changes applied.


=== SPIs

The module defines only one single SPI, that must be implemented to implement the fabric method
+createChangeRequest(URI)+ of the +ConfigChangeManager+ singleton:

[source,java]
.SPI: ConfigEventSpi
--------------------------------------------------
public interface ConfigChangeManagerSpi {
    ConfigChangeRequest createChangeRequest(URI backendURI);
}
--------------------------------------------------

Implementations are registered with the current +ServiceContext+, be default as with
 +java.util.ServiceLoader+.
