docs/src/main/asciidoc/Core.adoc, before:

Apache Tamaya -- Core
=====================
:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya.core
:title: Apache Tamaya Core
:revnumber: 0.1.1
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: March 2015
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:iconsdir: {imagesdir}/icons
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:icons:
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.
'''

<<<
image::http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/resources/images/logos/logo_wood.png[]

toc::[]

<<<
:numbered!:
<<<
[[Core]]
== Tamaya Core
=== Overview

Tamaya Core provides an implementation of the link:API.html[Tamaya Configuration API] and adds additional functionality
and building blocks for supporting SPI implementations.

Tamaya Core contains the following artifacts:

* Implementations of +Configuration, ConfigurationContext, ConfigurationContextBuilder+ ConfigurationProviderSpi+
* A +java.util.ServiceLoader+ based +ServiceContext+ implementation. Hereby it implements component priorization based
  on the +@Priority+ annotations.
* A PropertyConverterManager+ that loads and stores references to all the preconfigured +PropertyConverter+ instances
hereby providing type conversion for all important types.
* A simple default configuration setup using the current classpath and an optional staging variable.
* It collects all +PropertySource+ and +PropertySourceProvider+ instances registered with the +ServiceLoader+ and
  registers them in the global +ConfigurationContext+
* It provides a +ConfigurationContextBuilder+ and allows changing the current +ConfigurationContext+.

The overall size of the library is very small. All required components are implemented and registered, so basically the
Core module is a complete configuration solution. Nevertheless it is also very minimalistic, but fortunately is flexible
enough to be extended/accommodated with additional features as needed, such as

* placeholder and resolution mechanisms
* dynamic resource path lookup, e.g. with ant styled patterns
* configuration injection and configuration templates
* abstraction for reusable formats
* integration with other existing solutions
* configuration and configuration isolation targeting Java EE
* dynamic configuration and configuration updates
* Configuration management extensions
* remote configuration
* and more

For details about the extension modules available and  their functionality refer to the link:modules.html[extension user guide].


[[CorePropertyConverters]]
=== Default PropertyConverters in Core

As mentioned the Core module delivers several default +PropertyConverter+ instances out of the box. Find below the
listing of converters automatically registered with the Core module:

[width="100%",frame="1",options="header",grid="all"]
|=======
|_Target Type_             |_Class Name_              |_Supported Formats_
|java.math.BigDecimal    |BigDecimalConverter     |1.2345, 0xFF
|java.math.BigInteger    |BigIntegerConverter     |0xFF, 1234
|java.lang.Boolean       |BooleanConverter        |true, false, T, F, 1 ,0
|java.lang.Byte          |ByteConverter           |0xFF, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE, 123
|java.lang.Character     |CharConverter           |0xFF, 'a', 'H', 123
|java.lang.Class         |ClassConverter          |<fully qualified class name>
|java.util.Currency      |CurrencyConverter       |CHF, 123
|java.lang.Double        |DoubleConverter         |1, 0xFF, 1.2334, NaN, NEGATIVE_INFITIY, POSITIVE_INFINITY, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|_Enums_                 |EnumConverter           |<Enum item name>
|java.lang.Float         |FloatConverter          |1, 0xFF, 1.2334, NaN, NEGATIVE_INFITIY, POSITIVE_INFINITY, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|java.lang.Integer       |IntegerConverter        |1, 0xD3, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|LocalDate               |LocalDateConverter      |<Date as defined by LocalDate.parse(String)
|LocalTime               |LocalTimeConverter      |<Time as defined by LocalTime.parse(String)
|LocalDateTime           |LocalDateTimeConverter  |<LocalDateTime as defined by LocalDateTime.parse(String)>
|java.lang.Long          |LongConverter           |1, 0xD3, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|java.lang.Number        |NumberConverter         |1, 0xFF, 1.2334, NaN, NEGATIVE_INFITIY, POSITIVE_INFINITY
|java.lang.Short         |ShortConverter          |1, 0xD3, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|java.net.URI            |URIConverter            |http://localhost:2020/testresource?api=true
|java.net.URL            |URLConverter            |http://localhost:2020/testresource?api=true
|ZoneId                  |ZoneIdConverter         |Europe/Zurich
|=======


=== Registering PropertyConverters

Additional +PropertyConverters+ can be implemented easily. It is recommended to register then using the +java.util.ServiceLoader+,
meaning you add a file under +META-INF/service/org.apache.tamaya.spi.PropertyConverter+ containing the fully qualified
class names of the converters to be registered (one line per each).

Alternatively you can also use a +ConfigurationContextBuilder+ to add additional converters programmatically.

NOTE: API Implementations can be read-only thus not allowing adding additional converters programmatically.


[[ComponentLoadingAndPriorization]]
=== Component Loading and Priorization

Tamaya Core in general loads all components using the +java.util.ServiceLoader+ mechanism. This means that new components
must be registered by adding a file under +META-INF/service/<myInterfaceName>+ containing the fully qualified
implementation class names of the components to be registered (one line per each).
The +ServiceLoader+ itself does not provide any functionality for overriding or ordering of components. Tamaya
core adds this functionality by the possibility to add +@Priority+ annotations to the components registered.
By default, and if no annotation is added +0+ is used as priority. Hereby higher values preceed lower values, meaning

* if a singleton component is accessed from the current +ServiceContext+ the component with the higher value
  effectively _overrides/replaces_ any component with lower values.
* if a collection of components is obtained from the +ServiceContext+ the components are ordered in order, where the
  ones with higher priority are before components with lower priority.
* if priorities match Tamaya Core additionally sorts them using the simple class name. This ensures that ordering is
  still defined and predictable in almost all scenarios.


[[RegisteringPropertySources]]
=== Registering Property Sources

PropertySources that provide configuration properties are registered as ordinary components as described in the previous
section. Nevertheless the priority is not managed based on +@Priority+ annotations, but based on an explicit
+int getOrdinal()+ method. This allows to define the ordinal/priority of a +PropertySource+ explicitly. This is useful
due to several reasons:

* it allows to define the ordinal as part of the configuration, thus allowing new overriding property sources being
  added easily.
* it allows to define the ordinal dynamically, e.g. based on the configuration location, the time of loading or
  whatever may be appropriate.


[[CorePropertySources]]
== Configuration Setup in Core

Tamaya Core provides a minimal, but already powerful configuration setting, that allows you to configure SE
applications already easily. Basically you can provide configuration properties using the following formats and
locations (from weakest to strongest):

. Read environment properties and add them prefixed with +env.+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/defaults.properties+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/${tamaya.stage}/defaults.properties+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/config.properties+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/${tamaya.stage}/config.properties+
. Read current system properties.

Hereby +tamaya.stage+ can be set by setting an according environment property, or by applying (overriding any environment
property) a corresponding system property:

[source, listing]
-----------------------------------------
-Dtamaya.stage=test
-----------------------------------------

If not set the staging locations will be ignored.


=== Overview of Registered Default Property Sources and Providers

The Tamaya Core implementation provides a couple of default +PropertySource+ implementations, which are automatically
registered. They are all in the package +org.apache.tamaya.core.propertysource+:

[width="100%",frame="1",options="header",grid="all"]
|=======
|_Type_                                   |_Class Name_                   |_Ordinal Used_
|Environment Properties                   |EnvironmentPropertySource      |300
|System Properties                        |SystemPropertySource           |400
|Base Implementation                      |BasePropertySource             |1000
|Properties Implementation                |PropertiesPropertySource       |1000
|Properties Implementation based on a URL |PropertiesFilePropertySource   |1000
|=======

There is also a class +DefaultOrdinal+, which defines several default ordinals. Beside the ordinals for system
and environment properties above, there may additional default ordinals defined in the future.


=== Abstract Class PropertiesFilePropertySource

The abstract class +PropertiesFilePropertySource+ can be used for implementing a +PropertySource+ based on a +URL+
instance that points to a +.properites+ file. It requires a +URL+ to be passed on the constructor:

[source,java]
--------------------------------------------
PropertiesFilePropertySource(URL url);
--------------------------------------------


==== Abstract Class PropertiesPropertySource

The abstract class +PropertiesPropertySource+ can be used for implementing a +PropertySource+ based on a +Properties+
instance. It requires a +PropertySource+ to be passed on the constructor:

[source,java]
--------------------------------------------
PropertiesPropertySource(Properties properties);
--------------------------------------------


==== Abstract Class BasePropertySource

The abstract class +BasePropertySource+ can be used for implementing custom +PropertySource+ classes. It requires only
one method to implemented:

[source,java]
.Implementing a PropertySource using BasePropertySource
--------------------------------------------
public class MyPropertySource extends BasePropertySource{

    public String getName(){
        // return a unique name for the property source, e.g. based on the underlying resource. This name also
        // allows to access the property source later
    }

    public Map<String, String> getProperties(){
        // Get a map with all properties provided by this property source
        // If the property source is not scannable, the map returned may be empty.
        // In the ladder case the +boolean isScannale()+ must be overridden, since
        // by default property sources are assumed to be scannable.
    }

}
--------------------------------------------

By default the ordinal of the property sources will be 1000, unless the key +tamaya.ordinal+ asdefined in
+PropertySource.TAMAYA_ORDINAL+ is present in the current +PropertySource+. Of course it is also possible to override
the inherited +protected void initializeOrdinal(final int defaultOrdinal)+, or directly +int getOrdinal()+.


[[CorePropertySourceProviders]]
=== Default PropertySourceProvider in Core

With +org.apache.tamaya.core.provider.JavaConfigurationProvider+ there is also a default +PropertySourceProvider+
present that loads all .properties files found at +META-INF/javaconfiguration.properties+.


[[Extensions]]
== Adding Extensions

The Core module only implements the link:API.html[API]. Many users require/wish additional functionality from a
configuration system. Fortunately there are numerous extensions available, that add different functionality.
Loading extensions hereby is trivial: you only are required to add the corresponding dependency to the classpath.

For detailed information on the extensions available refer to the link:modules.html[extensions documentation].

Commit message:

Addedbasic version information on the extension modules.

docs/src/main/asciidoc/Core.adoc, after:

Apache Tamaya -- Core
=====================
:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya.core
:title: Apache Tamaya Core
:revnumber: 0.1.1
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: March 2015
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:iconsdir: {imagesdir}/icons
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:icons:
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.
'''

<<<
image::http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/resources/images/logos/logo_wood.png[]

toc::[]

<<<
:numbered!:
<<<
[[Core]]
== Tamaya Core
=== Overview

Tamaya Core provides an implementation of the link:API.html[Tamaya Configuration API] and adds additional functionality
and building blocks for supporting SPI implementations.

Tamaya Core contains the following artifacts:

* Implementations of +Configuration, ConfigurationContext, ConfigurationContextBuilder+ ConfigurationProviderSpi+
* A +java.util.ServiceLoader+ based +ServiceContext+ implementation. Hereby it implements component priorization based
  on the +@Priority+ annotations.
* A PropertyConverterManager+ that loads and stores references to all the preconfigured +PropertyConverter+ instances
hereby providing type conversion for all important types.
* A simple default configuration setup using the current classpath and an optional staging variable.
* It collects all +PropertySource+ and +PropertySourceProvider+ instances registered with the +ServiceLoader+ and
  registers them in the global +ConfigurationContext+
* It provides a +ConfigurationContextBuilder+ and allows changing the current +ConfigurationContext+.

The overall size of the library is very small. All required components are implemented and registered, so basically the
Core module is a complete configuration solution. Nevertheless it is also very minimalistic, but fortunately is flexible
enough to be extended/accommodated with additional features as needed, such as

* placeholder and resolution mechanisms
* dynamic resource path lookup, e.g. with ant styled patterns
* configuration injection and configuration templates
* abstraction for reusable formats
* integration with other existing solutions
* configuration and configuration isolation targeting Java EE
* dynamic configuration and configuration updates
* Configuration management extensions
* remote configuration
* and more

For details about the extension modules available and  their functionality refer to the link:modules.html[extension user guide].


[[CorePropertyConverters]]
=== Default PropertyConverters in Core

As mentioned the Core module delivers several default +PropertyConverter+ instances out of the box. Find below the
listing of converters automatically registered with the Core module:

[width="100%",frame="1",options="header",grid="all"]
|=======
|_Target Type_             |_Class Name_              |_Supported Formats_
|java.math.BigDecimal    |BigDecimalConverter     |1.2345, 0xFF
|java.math.BigInteger    |BigIntegerConverter     |0xFF, 1234
|java.lang.Boolean       |BooleanConverter        |true, false, T, F, 1 ,0
|java.lang.Byte          |ByteConverter           |0xFF, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE, 123
|java.lang.Character     |CharConverter           |0xFF, 'a', 'H', 123
|java.lang.Class         |ClassConverter          |<fully qualified class name>
|java.util.Currency      |CurrencyConverter       |CHF, 123
|java.lang.Double        |DoubleConverter         |1, 0xFF, 1.2334, NaN, NEGATIVE_INFITIY, POSITIVE_INFINITY, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|_Enums_                 |EnumConverter           |<Enum item name>
|java.lang.Float         |FloatConverter          |1, 0xFF, 1.2334, NaN, NEGATIVE_INFITIY, POSITIVE_INFINITY, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|java.lang.Integer       |IntegerConverter        |1, 0xD3, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|LocalDate               |LocalDateConverter      |<Date as defined by LocalDate.parse(String)
|LocalTime               |LocalTimeConverter      |<Time as defined by LocalTime.parse(String)
|LocalDateTime           |LocalDateTimeConverter  |<LocalDateTime as defined by LocalDateTime.parse(String)>
|java.lang.Long          |LongConverter           |1, 0xD3, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|java.lang.Number        |NumberConverter         |1, 0xFF, 1.2334, NaN, NEGATIVE_INFITIY, POSITIVE_INFINITY
|java.lang.Short         |ShortConverter          |1, 0xD3, MIN_VALUE, MAX_VALUE
|java.net.URI            |URIConverter            |http://localhost:2020/testresource?api=true
|java.net.URL            |URLConverter            |http://localhost:2020/testresource?api=true
|ZoneId                  |ZoneIdConverter         |Europe/Zurich
|=======


=== Registering PropertyConverters

Additional +PropertyConverters+ can be implemented easily. It is recommended to register then using the +java.util.ServiceLoader+,
meaning you add a file under +META-INF/service/org.apache.tamaya.spi.PropertyConverter+ containing the fully qualified
class names of the converters to be registered (one line per each).

Alternatively you can also use a +ConfigurationContextBuilder+ to add additional converters programmatically.

NOTE: API Implementations can be read-only thus not allowing adding additional converters programmatically.


[[ComponentLoadingAndPriorization]]
=== Component Loading and Priorization

Tamaya Core in general loads all components using the +java.util.ServiceLoader+ mechanism. This means that new components
must be registered by adding a file under +META-INF/service/<myInterfaceName>+ containing the fully qualified
implementation class names of the components to be registered (one line per each).
The +ServiceLoader+ itself does not provide any functionality for overriding or ordering of components. Tamaya
core adds this functionality by the possibility to add +@Priority+ annotations to the components registered.
By default, and if no annotation is added +0+ is used as priority. Hereby higher values preceed lower values, meaning

* if a singleton component is accessed from the current +ServiceContext+ the component with the higher value
  effectively _overrides/replaces_ any component with lower values.
* if a collection of components is obtained from the +ServiceContext+ the components are ordered in order, where the
  ones with higher priority are before components with lower priority.
* if priorities match Tamaya Core additionally sorts them using the simple class name. This ensures that ordering is
  still defined and predictable in almost all scenarios.


[[RegisteringPropertySources]]
=== Registering Property Sources

PropertySources that provide configuration properties are registered as ordinary components as described in the previous
section. Nevertheless the priority is not managed based on +@Priority+ annotations, but based on an explicit
+int getOrdinal()+ method. This allows to define the ordinal/priority of a +PropertySource+ explicitly. This is useful
due to several reasons:

* it allows to define the ordinal as part of the configuration, thus allowing new overriding property sources being
  added easily.
* it allows to define the ordinal dynamically, e.g. based on the configuration location, the time of loading or
  whatever may be appropriate.


[[CorePropertySources]]
== Configuration Setup in Core

Tamaya Core provides a minimal, but already powerful configuration setting, that allows you to configure SE
applications already easily. Basically you can provide configuration properties using the following formats and
locations (from weakest to strongest):

. Read environment properties and add them prefixed with +env.+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/defaults.properties+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/${tamaya.stage}/defaults.properties+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/config.properties+
. Read all files found in +META-INF/cfg/${tamaya.stage}/config.properties+
. Read current system properties.

Hereby +tamaya.stage+ can be set by setting an according environment property, or by applying (overriding any environment
property) a corresponding system property:

[source, listing]
-----------------------------------------
-Dtamaya.stage=test
-----------------------------------------

If not set the staging locations will be ignored.


=== Overview of Registered Default Property Sources and Providers

The Tamaya Core implementation provides a couple of default +PropertySource+ implementations, which are automatically
registered. They are all in the package +org.apache.tamaya.core.propertysource+:

[width="100%",frame="1",options="header",grid="all"]
|=======
|_Type_                                   |_Class Name_                   |_Ordinal Used_
|Environment Properties                   |EnvironmentPropertySource      |300
|System Properties                        |SystemPropertySource           |400
|Base Implementation                      |BasePropertySource             |1000
|Properties Implementation                |PropertiesPropertySource       |1000
|Properties Implementation based on a URL |PropertiesFilePropertySource   |1000
|=======

There is also a class +DefaultOrdinal+, which defines several default ordinals. Beside the ordinals for system
and environment properties above, there may additional default ordinals defined in the future.


=== Abstract Class PropertiesFilePropertySource

The abstract class +PropertiesFilePropertySource+ can be used for implementing a +PropertySource+ based on a +URL+
instance that points to a +.properites+ file. It requires a +URL+ to be passed on the constructor:

[source,java]
--------------------------------------------
PropertiesFilePropertySource(URL url);
--------------------------------------------


==== Abstract Class PropertiesPropertySource

The abstract class +PropertiesPropertySource+ can be used for implementing a +PropertySource+ based on a +Properties+
instance. It requires a +PropertySource+ to be passed on the constructor:

[source,java]
--------------------------------------------
PropertiesPropertySource(Properties properties);
--------------------------------------------


==== Abstract Class BasePropertySource

The abstract class +BasePropertySource+ can be used for implementing custom +PropertySource+ classes. It requires only
one method to implemented:

[source,java]
.Implementing a PropertySource using BasePropertySource
--------------------------------------------
public class MyPropertySource extends BasePropertySource{

    public String getName(){
        // return a unique name for the property source, e.g. based on the underlying resource. This name also
        // allows to access the property source later
    }

    public Map<String, String> getProperties(){
        // Get a map with all properties provided by this property source
        // If the property source is not scannable, the map returned may be empty.
        // In the ladder case the +boolean isScannale()+ must be overridden, since
        // by default property sources are assumed to be scannable.
    }

}
--------------------------------------------

By default the ordinal of the property sources will be 1000, unless the key +tamaya.ordinal+ asdefined in
+PropertySource.TAMAYA_ORDINAL+ is present in the current +PropertySource+. Of course it is also possible to override
the inherited +protected void initializeOrdinal(final int defaultOrdinal)+, or directly +int getOrdinal()+.


[[CorePropertySourceProviders]]
=== Default PropertySourceProvider in Core

With +org.apache.tamaya.core.provider.JavaConfigurationProvider+ there is also a default +PropertySourceProvider+
present that loads all .properties files found at +META-INF/javaconfiguration.properties+.


[[Extensions]]
== Adding Extensions

The Core module only implements the link:API.html[API]. Many users require/wish additional functionality from a
configuration system. Fortunately there are numerous extensions available that add further functionality
(most of them are compatible with Java 7 and 8, so you can use regardless which version of the API you are using).
Loading extensions hereby is trivial: you only are required to add the corresponding dependency to the classpath.

For detailed information on the extensions available refer to the link:modules.html[extensions documentation].
