docs/src/main/asciidoc/examples.adoc, before:

Apache Tamaya -- Extension Modules
==================================
:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya
:title: Apache Tamaya Examples
:revnumber: {tamayaVersion}
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: March 2015
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.
toc::[]

== Tamaya Examples

=== Minimal
tbc

=== Simple PropertySource
tbc

=== Resources
tbc

=== Resolver
tbc

=== Injection
tbc

=== FileObserver
tbc

=== Builder
tbc

Commit message:

Added descriptions for the various examples.

docs/src/main/asciidoc/examples.adoc, after:

Apache Tamaya -- Extension Modules
==================================
:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya
:title: Apache Tamaya Examples
:revnumber: {tamayaVersion}
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: March 2015
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.
toc::[]

== Tamaya Examples

=== Minimal

This example shows the basic functionality that is available when Tamaya is used without any further extensions.
It shows how configuration can be added to the classpath and how it can be accessed.

=== Simple PropertySource

This example shows how to write and register an additional +PropertySource+ and +PropertySourceProvider+, which is
the SPI to add your own configuration data and locations. For a more advanced example you may also have a look at
the provided default metamodels, e.g. the simple metamodel (currently in the experimental part and not shipped with
the current release).

=== Resources

This example shows how resources can be located using ANT-styled paths and this feature can help you to implement
+PropertySourceProvider+ instances that provide configuration for a set of files/folders at a certain (searchable)
location, as provided by the resource extension_.

=== Resolver

The resolver example defines a configuration file that illustrates the usage of placeholders that are resolved on
configuration access, as provided by the _resolver extension_.

=== Injection

The injection sample shows how to inject configuration into a created object instance, or how to instantiate a proxied
configuration template, which provides a type-safe configuration access mechanism. This functionality is provided
by the _injection extension_. Hereby neither JSR 330 nor 299 are used, so it is pure and minimal SE based
implementation.

=== FileObserver

This example shows how the +event extension+ can be used to automatically adapt the current configuration when
the underlying configuration data is changing, e.g. when new configuration is added to a file folder, or removed or
adapted.

=== Builder

This example shows how to build a +Configuration+ using a simple pure SE builder API as provided by the
_builder extension_.
