docs/src/main/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

Apache Tamaya -- Documentation
==============================
:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya
:title: Apache Tamaya
:revnumber: 0.1-SNAPSHOT
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: November 2014
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:iconsdir: {imagesdir}/icons
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:icons:
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.
'''

<<<

image::http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/resources/images/logos/logo_wood.png[]

toc::[]

<<<
:numbered!:
-----------------------------------------------------------
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-----------------------------------------------------------

:numbered:

<<<

== Introduction
[[WhatIsTamaya]]
=== What is Apache Tamaya?
Tamaya is a very powerful yet flexible configuration solution. It's core is built based on a few simple concepts.
Summarizing Tamaya provides you

* a simple _key/value_ configuration model.
* a uniform API for accessing _configuration_, regardless if you are running in a Java SE, Java EE or OSGI environment.
  This API is capable of hiding all the complexities in configuration management, your developers only need to know,
  where and in which format configuration can be added to the system.
* A +ConfigurationBuilder+ allowing you to create a configuration completely manually and managing the configuration
  lifecycle on your own.
* a minimalistic implementation, which in the future might also be targeting Java ME environments.
* a powerful SPI that allows you to extend/adapt Tamaya with all kind of additional mechanisms commonly used in
  many use cases.
* a bunch of modules that can be added to your classpath thus adding different functionality to your system as needed.


=== What is Apache Tamaya NOT?

Nevertheless there are a few things that are not part of Tamaya:

* Tamaya comes as a modular framework, where you have to decide, which features make sense for you. So you have to do
  a selection, which modules make sense.
* Though Tamaya comes with a very minimalistic configuration scheme out-of-the-box, it does by default typically not
  cover your enterprise requirements. Also here Tamaya offers hooks and examples showing how you can easily
  replace your current configuration logic with Tamaya. So you must know how you want to organize configuration in
  your enterprise context, such as supported file locations, formats, overriding and filter rules etc.


[[WorkingGroup]]
=== Working Group
This work is being conducted as part of a community lead joint effort under the Apache Software Foundation. This
specification is the result of the collaborative work of the members of the Tamaya Users Group and the community at
large.

=== Goals
Configuration is a key feature in all kind of programming languages. Basically configuration is the parametrization of
well defined aspects of a software product without having to recompile/rebuild the code. Summarizing configuration
can affect basically every part of a system, which renders configuration to a real cross-cutting concern, usable in
many facets.

=== Targets
Tamaya targets to support all general configuration aspects in a system, e.g.

* application configuration
  ** plugins
  ** modules
  ** components
* Container configuration, e.g. of Java EE enabling portability and dynamic provisioning
* Configuration of CDI (interceptors, decorators and alternatives)
* Configuration of Bean Validation, JSF, web applications etc.
* Configuration of instances within Java SE, e.g. by passing instances to a method that injects configured values,
  and by providing accessors to evaluate current configuration values. This can be used explicitly or transparently
  by client code.

Since configuration is implemented and applied in various ways Tamaya will allow you to use

* multiple configuration locations, including remote locations
* multiple configuration formats, including custom formats
* multiple configuration loading mechanisms, including custom mechanisms. By default reading the classpath, files und
  URIs are supported by default.
* type conversion
* configuration filtering and property adapters
* configuration of collections

The Tamaya project consists of the following parts:

* The link:API.html[API] is a complete SE based configuration API, that provides the minimum of functionality needed.
  It is modelled in a extensible way and only requires a few kb. The main features supported by the link:API.html[] are:
  ** Reading configuration as String/String key/value pairs
  ** Reading configuration as type safe values, including type conversion.
  ** Converting/mapping configuration using operators and queries.
  ** An SPI providing abstractions for handling property sources, property filters and component lifecycle management.

* The link:Core.html[Core] implements the link:API.html[API]. Basically with the core part (and the API) you are ready
to go, but you may want to add additional extensions that provide more features that are very useful.
* Extensions are additional libraries that you can add to your project setup. Most important features are:
  ** Dynamic resolution of configured values.
  ** Pattern based resource location
  ** Configuration injection and configuration template support
  ** Support for additional configuration formats
  ** Collection Support
  ** Prepared configuration metamodels
  ** Integration with other frameworks as configuration consumer or producer.
* Finally the *documentation* module provides comprehensive documentation on all features provided.


=== Required Java version
The full API is based on Java SE 8.0 language features, whereas a compatible implementation of API and Core
is similarly available for Java SE 7 as well.


== Where should I continue

=== Further Documentation

* If you want to have a deeper look at the API/SPI, we recommend the link:API.html[API documentation].
* If you want to have an overview about the available modules, continue link:modules.html[here].
* If you want to look to the numerous examples, continue link:examples.html[here].
* If you are interested in the software design in place, continue link:HighLevelDesign.html[here].

Finally
* If you are interested in the collected requirements, continue link:Requirements.html[here].
* If you are interested in the collected use cases, continue link:usecases.html[here].

=== API Documentation

Javadoc of the current API

* link:API.html[General API Documentation] and link:../javadoc/api/java7/index.html[API Javadoc for Java7] /
  link:../javadoc/api/java8/index.html[API Javadoc for Java8]

Javadoc of the current Core Implementation

* link:Core.html[General Core Documentation] and link:../javadoc/core/java7/index.html[Core Javadoc for Java7] /
  link:../javadoc/core/java8/index.html[Core Javadoc for Java8]

Javadoc of the current Extension Modules


=== Examples

A comprehensive set of examples can be found link:../examples.html[here].

Commit message:

Minor additions on usage and spelling.

docs/src/main/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

Apache Tamaya -- Documentation
==============================
:name: Tamaya
:rootpackage: org.apache.tamaya
:title: Apache Tamaya
:revnumber: 0.1-SNAPSHOT
:revremark: Incubator
:revdate: November 2014
:longversion: {revnumber} ({revremark}) {revdate}
:authorinitials: ATR
:author: Anatole Tresch
:email: <anatole@apache.org>
:source-highlighter: coderay
:website: http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/
:iconsdir: {imagesdir}/icons
:toc:
:toc-placement: manual
:icons:
:encoding: UTF-8
:numbered:
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.
'''

<<<

image::http://tamaya.incubator.apache.org/resources/images/logos/logo_wood.png[]

toc::[]

<<<
:numbered!:
-----------------------------------------------------------
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-----------------------------------------------------------

:numbered:

<<<

== Introduction
[[WhatIsTamaya]]
=== What is Apache Tamaya?
Tamaya is a very powerful yet flexible configuration solution. It's core is built based on a few simple concepts.
Summarizing Tamaya provides you

* a simple _key/value_ configuration model.
* a uniform API for accessing _configuration_, regardless if you are running in a Java SE, Java EE or OSGI environment.
  This API is capable of hiding all the complexities in configuration management, your developers only need to know,
  where and in which format configuration can be added to the system.
* A +ConfigurationBuilder+ allowing you to create a configuration completely manually and managing the configuration
  lifecycle on your own.
* a minimalistic implementation, which in the future might also be targeting Java ME environments.
* a powerful SPI that allows you to extend/adapt Tamaya with all kind of additional mechanisms commonly used in
  many use cases.
* a bunch of modules that can be added to your classpath thus adding different functionality to your system as needed.


=== What is Apache Tamaya NOT?

Nevertheless there are a few things that are not part of Tamaya:

* Tamaya comes as a modular framework, where you have to decide, which features make sense for you. So you have to do
  a selection, which modules make sense.
* Though Tamaya comes with a very minimalistic configuration scheme out-of-the-box, it does by default typically not
  cover your enterprise requirements. Also here Tamaya offers hooks and examples showing how you can easily
  replace your current configuration logic with Tamaya. So you must know how you want to organize configuration in
  your enterprise context, such as supported file locations, formats, overriding and filter rules etc.


[[WhatCanIDoEithTamaya]]
=== And what can I do with Apache Tamaya?

There are basically two main usage scenarios, which are synergetic:

* In an enterprise context you can easily implement a configuration architecture for your whole company and deploy the
  logic as an extension module. All application development teams in your company can then depend on this module (and the
  basic Tamaya core implementation). As a result all applications/modules in your company follow the same configuration
  policy, which makes it much more simpler to move people between your teams. Similarly additional tooling functionality
  can help you to manage configuration on application as well as on enterprise level, e.g. providing command line or
  REST support to access the supported configuration entries, types and values, configuration validation and more.
* If you are writing an application, application component or library you can support configuration using Tamaya by
  adding it as an optional dependency. If done so your users/customers can use Tamaya to connect their current enterprise
  configuration infrastructure transparently to your code. As an example you can use Tamaya to read your default
  configuration files, but since Tamaya is so easily extendable, customers can deploy an additional jar, which then
  allows them to add their own configuration mechanisms such as databases, datagrids or REST services.


[[WorkingGroup]]
=== Working Group
This work is being conducted as part of a community lead joint effort under the Apache Software Foundation. This
specification is the result of the collaborative work of the members of the Tamaya Users Group and the community at
large.

=== Goals
Configuration is a key feature in all kind of programming languages. Basically configuration is the parametrization of
well defined aspects of a software product without having to recompile/rebuild the code. Summarizing configuration
can affect basically every part of a system, which renders configuration to a real cross-cutting concern, usable in
many facets.

=== Targets
Tamaya targets to support all general configuration aspects in a system, e.g.

* application configuration
  ** plugins
  ** modules
  ** components
* Container configuration, e.g. of Java EE enabling portability and dynamic provisioning
* Configuration of CDI (interceptors, decorators and alternatives)
* Configuration of Bean Validation, JSF, web applications etc.
* Configuration of instances within Java SE, e.g. by passing instances to a method that injects configured values,
  and by providing accessors to evaluate current configuration values. This can be used explicitly or transparently
  by client code.

Since configuration is implemented and applied in various ways Tamaya will allow you to use

* multiple configuration locations, including remote locations
* multiple configuration formats, including custom formats
* multiple configuration loading mechanisms, including custom mechanisms. By default reading the classpath, files und
  URIs are supported by default.
* type conversion
* configuration filtering and property adapters
* configuration of collections

The Tamaya project consists of the following parts:

* The link:API.html[API] is a complete SE based configuration API, that provides the minimum of functionality needed.
  It is modelled in a extensible way and only requires a few kb. The main features supported by the link:API.html[] are:
  ** Reading configuration as String/String key/value pairs
  ** Reading configuration as type safe values, including type conversion.
  ** Converting/mapping configuration using operators and queries.
  ** An SPI providing abstractions for handling property sources, property filters and component lifecycle management.

* The link:Core.html[Core] implements the link:API.html[API]. Basically with the core part (and the API) you are ready
to go, but you may want to add additional extensions that provide more features that are very useful.
* Extensions are additional libraries that you can add to your project setup. Most important features are:
  ** Dynamic resolution of configured values.
  ** Pattern based resource location
  ** Configuration injection and configuration template support
  ** Support for additional configuration formats
  ** Collection Support
  ** Prepared configuration metamodels
  ** Integration with other frameworks as configuration consumer or producer.
* Finally the *documentation* module provides comprehensive documentation on all features provided.


=== Required Java version
The full API is based on Java SE 8.0 language features, whereas a compatible implementation of API and Core
is similarly available for Java SE 7 as well.


== Where should I continue

=== Further Documentation

* If you want to have a deeper look at the API/SPI, we recommend the link:API.html[API documentation].
* If you want to have an overview about the available modules, continue link:modules.html[here].
* If you want to look to the numerous examples, continue link:examples.html[here].
* If you are interested in the software design in place, continue link:HighLevelDesign.html[here].

Finally
* If you are interested in the collected requirements, continue link:Requirements.html[here].
* If you are interested in the collected use cases, continue link:usecases.html[here].

=== API Documentation

Javadoc of the current API

* link:API.html[General API Documentation] and link:../javadoc/api/java7/index.html[API Javadoc for Java7] /
  link:../javadoc/api/java8/index.html[API Javadoc for Java8]

Javadoc of the current Core Implementation

* link:Core.html[General Core Documentation] and link:../javadoc/core/java7/index.html[Core Javadoc for Java7] /
  link:../javadoc/core/java8/index.html[Core Javadoc for Java8]

Javadoc of the current Extension Modules


=== Examples

A comprehensive set of examples can be found link:../examples.html[here].
